README.md, before:

# QuickTube - A YouTube TUI Helper

A simple TUI (Terminal User Interface) helper script to quickly stream or download YouTube videos and audio directly from your terminal. It uses `gum` to create a user-friendly menu, automatically detects a YouTube link in your clipboard, and lets you decide what to do with it.

![demo-gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wulffern/QuickTube/main/img/QuickTube.gif)

## Features

- **Stream Video**: Instantly stream a video in `mpv`.
- **Stream Audio**: Listen to audio-only in `mpv`, perfect for podcasts or music.
- **Download Video**: Choose from a list of available video resolutions and download the best quality version, which is then merged with the best audio track into an MP4 file.
- **Download Audio**: Download the best audio available and convert it to the efficient `opus` format.
- **Clipboard Detection**: Automatically grabs a YouTube URL from your clipboard to speed up your workflow.
- **Interactive Menu**: A clean, interactive menu system powered by `gum`.

## Scripts

This repository contains two versions of the script:

- **`yt-helper.v1.sh`**: The main script, intended for **Linux** users (using `wl-paste` or `xclip`).
- **`yt-helper-mac.sh`**: A specific version for **macOS** users (using `pbpaste`).

## Dependencies

Before running the script, make sure you have the following programs installed:

- **[gum](https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum)**: For the interactive menus.
- **[yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)**: For interacting with YouTube.
- **[mpv](https://mpv.io/)**: For streaming video and audio.
- **[ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)**: For merging video/audio and for audio conversion.

You will also need a clipboard tool:
- **For Linux**: `wl-paste` (for Wayland) or `xclip` (for X11).
- **For macOS**: `pbpaste` is included by default.

### Installation Example (Homebrew on macOS)
```bash
brew install gum yt-dlp mpv ffmpeg
```

### Installation Example (APT on Debian/Ubuntu)
```bash
sudo apt install gum yt-dlp mpv ffmpeg xclip
```

## How to Use

1. Make sure all dependencies are installed.
2. Make the script executable:
   ```bash
   # For Linux
   chmod +x yt-helper.v1.sh

   # For macOS
   chmod +x yt-helper-mac.sh
   ```
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   # For Linux
   ./yt-helper.v1.sh

   # For macOS
   ./yt-helper-mac.sh
   ```
4. Paste a YouTube URL or let the script pick it up from your clipboard, and choose your desired action from the menu.

Commit message:

Add playlist support with auto-numbering and create      quicktube.sh

README.md, after:

# QuickTube - A YouTube TUI Helper

A simple TUI (Terminal User Interface) helper script to quickly stream or download YouTube videos and audio directly from your terminal. It uses `gum` to create a user-friendly menu, automatically detects a YouTube link in your clipboard, and lets you decide what to do with it.

![demo-gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wulffern/QuickTube/main/img/QuickTube.gif)

## Features

- **Stream Video**: Instantly stream a video in `mpv`.
- **Stream Audio**: Listen to audio-only in `mpv`, perfect for podcasts or music.
- **Download Video**: Choose from a list of available video resolutions and download the best quality version, which is then merged with the best audio track into an MP4 file.
- **Download Audio**: Download the best audio available and convert it to the efficient `opus` format.
- **Playlist Support**: Automatically detects playlists and offers options to stream or download the entire list, with files named and numbered to preserve the correct order.
- **Clipboard Detection**: Automatically grabs a YouTube URL from your clipboard to speed up your workflow.
- **Interactive Menu**: A clean, interactive menu system powered by `gum`.

## Playlist Support

The script intelligently detects if the provided URL is a playlist (by checking for `list=` in the URL). When a playlist is detected, the menu adapts to offer playlist-specific actions:

- **Stream Full Playlist**: Open the entire playlist directly in `mpv` (video or audio-only).
- **Download Full Playlist**: 
    - Downloads all videos (or audio tracks) in the playlist.
    - Creates a subfolder named after the playlist.
    - Files are automatically numbered (e.g., `01 - Title.mp4`, `02 - Title.mp4`) to ensure they sort correctly according to the playlist order.
    - Video downloads automatically select the best MP4 quality.
    - Audio downloads are converted to `opus`.

## Scripts

This repository contains two versions of the script:

- **`yt-helper.v1.sh`**: The main script, intended for **Linux** users (using `wl-paste` or `xclip`).
- **`yt-helper-mac.sh`**: A specific version for **macOS** users (using `pbpaste`).

## Dependencies

Before running the script, make sure you have the following programs installed:

- **[gum](https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum)**: For the interactive menus.
- **[yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)**: For interacting with YouTube.
- **[mpv](https://mpv.io/)**: For streaming video and audio.
- **[ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)**: For merging video/audio and for audio conversion.

You will also need a clipboard tool:
- **For Linux**: `wl-paste` (for Wayland) or `xclip` (for X11).
- **For macOS**: `pbpaste` is included by default.

### Installation Example (Homebrew on macOS)
```bash
brew install gum yt-dlp mpv ffmpeg
```

### Installation Example (APT on Debian/Ubuntu)
```bash
sudo apt install gum yt-dlp mpv ffmpeg xclip
```

## How to Use

1. Make sure all dependencies are installed.
2. Make the script executable:
   ```bash
   # For Linux
   chmod +x yt-helper.v1.sh

   # For macOS
   chmod +x yt-helper-mac.sh
   ```
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   # For Linux
   ./yt-helper.v1.sh

   # For macOS
   ./yt-helper-mac.sh
   ```
4. Paste a YouTube URL or let the script pick it up from your clipboard, and choose your desired action from the menu.
